describe bot similar-packages command in news (#1279)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2026-03-30-news-mars-2026/index.Rmd

You can now download artifacts and log files from R-universe without being logged in with a GitHub account, for example https://ropensci.r-universe.dev/opencv#checktable.

### Software review and usage of AI tools

> Authors submitting new software for [peer review](https://github.com/ropensci/software-review/issues) are now required to explain usage of generative AI tools in their package development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authors submitting new software for [peer review](/software-review/) are now required to explain usage of generative AI tools in their package development.
```

rephrase to "potential usage" or so? to include those who didn't use it

All submission templates now include a mandatory check-box:

```
- [ ] Generative AI tools were used to produce some of the material in this submission.

If so, please describe usage, and include links to any relevant aspects of your repository.
```

> This is the start of our updates to accomodate generative AI tools in package development, as described in our [recent blog post](https://ropensci.org/blog/2026/02/26/ropensci-ai-policy/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the start of our updates to accommodate generative AI tools in package development, as described in our [recent blog post](/blog/2026/02/26/ropensci-ai-policy/).
```

Relative links only 😸

The next phase will involve updates to our [_Dev Guide_](https://devguide.ropensci.org), explaining requirements and recommendations for authors, reviewers, and editors.
All updates are intended to permit generative AI tools to be used in any useful way, while minimising the burden on those who volunteer their own time to keep our software peer review service running. 

### Software review bot updates

> The `ropensci-review-bot` now delivers an initial report to all new software pre-submissions and submissions, identifying the five most similar packages from both all rOpenSci packages, and all CRAN packages.

Reviewer: are R-universe packages on the roadmap?

Author: ... maybe, but not just yet.

> The `ropensci-review-bot` now delivers an initial report to all new software pre-submissions and submissions, identifying the five most similar packages from both all rOpenSci packages, and all CRAN packages.

Reviewer: link to pkgmatch review somehow? will you write a tech note soon?

Author: Link added, and yes, there'll definitely be a tech note.

> The matches are generated by our [ropensci-review-tools/pkgmatch package](https://docs.ropensci.org/pkgmatch).

Reviewer: explain how? LLMs? term frequency? one sentence. I'm writing LLM because that's the first thing that would come to mind after the other subsection.

Author: sentence added, thanks
